---
layout: post
title: Pattern Mining using Apriori algorithm
---

Given a input file which is an attributes list of one place. The attributes of the place consists of a number of category instances. Each line represents one place. Examples are as following:

Breakfast & Brunch;American (Traditional);Restaurants
Sandwiches;Restaurants
Local Services;IT Services & Computer Repair
Restaurants;Italian
Food;Coffee & Tea
Fast Food;Restaurants
Mortgage Brokers;Home Services;Real Estate

So the task is to mine frequent category patters under a given min-support. 

The philosophy of Apriori algorithm includes two steps: frequent patter generating and pruning. It's an iterative process that starts from Candidates set and ends up with Frequent set. Starts from 1-item to 2-items and so on. For example,
Step 1, Scan data to generate 1-item candidate set. And filter the patters with min-support to find frequent patters.
Step 2,  Generate 2-item candidate set based on 1-item set and 
	- Trim the data by removing infrequent 1-item patters.
	- Calculate support for 2-item patters and prune to with min-support to get 2-item frequent patters.  
Step 3, repeat above steps 2 to generate 3-item frequent patters and so on. Until there is no x-item patters exist in data or no patters satisfy the min-support.

So we'll work on this "category of places" data to find all frequent patters. What's the value of this? To find what services are always together in one place could be used as references to open your new stores for best profits. 
Let's say if we find "Hotels & Travel", "Hotels" and "Event Planning & Services" are associate most in some places what business chances you want to take there? 

So we'll get started.

It looks familiar to generate 1-item patters calculating supports as to do a classic "word count". So  just use handy Spark cluster to get this done firstly.
